# If statements
These are statements, that are executed based on the condition. They take the ***boolean value*** as the parameter. If we put something else, then it is checked if the value is not null.

## Branches
When we write if statements, we use code blocks called branches. Each branch validates its condition in order, if all above it are false. We define 3 types of branches:

- **The if branch**: every if statement **must start** with this block of code;
```
    ...
    if (isBlue) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    ...
``` 

- **The else if branch**: after an if statement, we can create alternative branches that have their own conditions;
```
    ...
    if (isBlue) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    else if (isRed) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    else if (isYellow) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    ...
```

- **The else branch**: it is a safeguard, that is executed when all branches fail to satisfy any condition;
```
    ...
    if (isBlue) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    else if (isYellow) {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
    else {
        //Statements
        ...
    }
```

## Boolean expressions
Boolean expressions are the expressions that evaluate a condition and result in a Boolean value i.e true or false. Ex: (a>b && a> c) is a Boolean expression. It evaluates the condition by comparing if 'a' is greater than 'b' and also if 'a' is greater than 'c'.

## Boolean operators
Boolean operators are used to execute Boolean expressions. Boolean operators compare the conditional expressions and return a Boolean value. The most common boolean operators are: 
- ***AND*** (&&); 
- ***OR*** (||);
- ***NOT*** (!);

## Comparison operators
Comparison Operators are used to evaluate a varialble and its content. The most common comparison operators are:
- ***GREATER THAN*** (>);
- ***LESS THAN*** (<);
- ***GREATER THAN OR EQUAL TO*** (>=);
- ***LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO*** (<=);
- ***EQUAL TO*** (==);
- ***NOT EQUAL*** (!=);