# Variables
The values of variables are stored somewhere in an unspecified location in the computer memory as zeros and ones. Our program does not need to know the exact location where variable is stored; it can simply refer to it by its name. 

## Data types
Program needs to be aware of the kind of data stored in the variable. It's not the same to store a simple integer as it is to store a letter; even though they are all represented using zeros and ones, they are not interpreted in the same way.

Fundamental data types are basic types implemented directly by the language. They can mainly be classified into:
- ***Character types***: They can represent a single character, such as **'X'** or **'^'**. The most basic type is char, which is a one-byte character. Other types are also provided for wider characters;
- ***Numerical integer types***: They can store a whole number value, such as **91** or **2137**. They exist in a variety of sizes, and can either be **signed** or **unsigned**, depending on whether they support negative values or not;
- ***Floating-point types***: They can represent real values, such as **3.63** or **0.012**, with different levels of precision, depending on which of the three floating-point types is used;
- ***Boolean type***: The boolean type, known in C++ as bool, can only represent one of two states, true or false;

## Initialization of variables
In C++, there are three ways to initialize variables. They are all equivalent:
- ***C-like initialization***: it was inherited from the C language;
```
    ...
    //type name = initial_value
    int age = 21;
    ...
```
- ***Constructor initialization***: it was introduced by the C++ language;
```
    ...
    //type name (initial_value)
    int age (21);
    ...
```
- ***Uniform initialization***: it was introduced by the revision of the C++ standard, in 2011;
```
    ...
    //type name {initial_value}
    int age {21};
    ...
```

## Type deduction: auto and decltype
When a new variable is intialized, the compiler can figer out what the type of the variable is automatically by the initializer. For this, it suffices to use ***auto*** as the type specifier for the variable:
```
    ...
    int drinking_age = 18;
    auto age = drinking_age; //the same as: int age = drinking_age;
    ...
```

Variables that are not initialized can also make use of the type deduction with the ***decltype*** specifier:
```
    ...
    int drinking_age = 18;
    decltype(drinking_age) age; //the same as: int age;
    ...
```

## Introduction to strings
One of the major strengths of the C++ language is its rich set of compound types, of which the fundamental types are mere building blocks.

An example of compound type is the string class. Variables of this type are able to store sequences of characters. In order to use it, the program needs to include the header where the type is defined within the standard library ***string***:
```
    #include <string>
    ...
    string student_name = "Jack Black";
    ...
```

